In this video we are going to start
learning about basic computer network.
We are going to start from the very basic,
which is learning about what is computer
network and the function of computer network
So what is computer network? In the simple term,
computer network is used to help us
to share information between computer.
For example, here I have a picture of computer
network. Here we can see that we have a laptop,
computer, printer, playstation,
smartphone, and another computer
And we can see that all of these devices is
connected to the router. Some devices connected
to the router using cable, and some another
devices connected to the router using wifi.
After all of these devices connected
to the router, now we have a computer
network here. And all of these devices
now can share information each others.
So this is a computer network, to help
us share information between computers.
Now let’s talk more about how
computer network can help us
In the past, before computer network exists,
let’s say we have a room and in
this room we have six computer.
For example all of this computer
want to print in the same time,
before computer network exists,
if we want to print, we need to have
a printer connected to our computer.
So if we have six computers like this, we will
need six printers that connected to each computer.
We need a printer in computer 1, computer 2,
computer 3, computer 4, computer 5, and also
we need a printer in computer 6 like this.
Now let’s imagine, we just have six computers
right now, and we need six printers that
connected to each computers. How if we have
100 computers, so we will need 100 printers right?
This is absolutely not cost effective.
But now, with computer network, we don’t
need to buy a printer for each computer.
We just need to have 1 printer that connected to
computer network, and then all of computers can
print with this printer using computer network.
Doesn’t matter if we have 10 computers,
50 computers, or even 100 computers,
we just need to have 1 printer
that connected to the computer network, and all
of that computers, can print using this 1 printer.
So this is one of the function of computer
network. Absolutely, this is help us much right?
Another example of the function of computer
network is to share data between computers.
In the past, or actually now we still use this
method. You know about flashdisk right? We can
use flashdisk to share data from
one computer to another computer.
For example we want to share data
from the computer to the laptop.
Before computer network exists, we need
to connecting a flashdisk to the computer,
then copy the data from the computer
to the flashdisk. When this is done,
we need to bring the flashdisk to the laptop.
And then now we can copy the data from the
flashdisk to the laptop. Now we have successfully
share the data from the computer to the laptop.
But we have a problem here. Which is we need
to bring the flashdisk from the computer to the laptop.
Let’s imagine that the computer
is in the 1st floor in the building,
and the laptop is in the 10th floor.  So
we need to walk to bring this flashdisk
from the computer to the laptop.
This is absolutely not efficient!
But now, if we use computer network, we don’t need
to do that. We can share data between computer
and laptop using computer network, as long as
computer and laptop is connected to the same
computer network. In this example, computer
and laptop is connected to the same router,
so absolutely, we can share data
between this computer and laptop.
So this is some of example how computer network
can help us. First we can use computer network
for sharing a printer, and also we can
use computer network to sharing data.
Besides these two example, we usually use
computer network to access the internet.
For example, we can access facebook.com from
the smartphone here. When we access facebook.com
from the smartphone like this, we already use a
computer network. Why? Because our smartphone is
connected to the router using wifi, and the router
is connected to ISP or
Internet Service Provider, and then
the ISP is connected to the internet.
And absolutely, we have a facebook.com
that also connected to the internet.
When we access facebook.com from the smartphone,
the packet will be forwarded to the router,
from the router will be forwarded to the ISP,
from the ISP will be forwarded to the internet,
and somehow the packet will be
forwarded to the facebook.com.
So this is how we use computer network to
access facebook.com from our smartphone.
Not only facebook.com, when we
access internet like youtube,
twitter, or when you watch this
video, you are using computer network!
Okay I hope you now understand what is computer
network and how computer network can help us.
In the next video, we are going to
learn about the most simple computer network.
Thankyou for watching
and see you on the next video!